JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's turn
now to our three panelists.
Carrie Cordero, I'm
going to start with you.
What do you make of that answer
that he really didn't have an
explanation for leaving the
room, whether he thought that
was unusual, leaving the Oval
Office when the president
wanted to be alone with the
then FBI director, and he didn't
seem terribly upset about the
fact that the FBI director
was concerned the next day
when he told him about it?
CARRIE CORDERO, Former
Department of Justice
Official: Right.
So, these memos that he's
talking about, this longstanding
Department of Justice policy,
has to do with, in recent
history, there was a
memo that an Attorney
General Mukasey issued,
that Eric Holder issued that
restrict the contacts between
the White House and the Justice
Department and the
FBI investigators on
ongoing investigations.
And so it was still an
odd answer, because, given
the fact that there was
this major investigation
going on that the attorney
general himself knew that he
was recused from, it would be
unusual.
Why would the president need
to hold back the FBI director
about something that the
attorney general couldn't
be present for, other than
the Russia investigation?
In other words, anything else
that the FBI director and the
president needed to discuss
of a substantive nature,
one would think the attorney
general could be there for it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: George
Terwilliger, what about that?
GEORGE TERWILLIGER, Former U.S.
Deputy Attorney General: Well,
I don't think it's that unusual
for a president to talk
to an FBI director alone.
I think it would probably be
worth asking a number of former
FBI directors if they ever
had one-on-one conversations
with the president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Even in this
-- in the middle of this
kind of an investigation?
GEORGE TERWILLIGER: Yes.
I mean, I think, in hindsight,
anybody that looks at it would
go, it would have been better
for that not to have occurred,
but the fact that the president
asked and the attorney
general -- I just -- I
mean, he's a courteous man.
I think he respected
the president's wishes.
And more than anything, Judy,
I -- what came through to me
today, more than an attorney
general, was I saw a man who
said, you're not going to
play political football with
my integrity, and said
that very, very firmly
even as to that question.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Walter Dellinger,
what did you take away from
the hearing overall, and
what about the specific
point about the president
asking everybody to
clear the room while he
talked to James Comey?
ÑMD-BOÑWALTER DELLINGER,
Former Acting Solicitor
General: Well, I think what was
particularly improper about that
conversation was the content
of it, that is, the president
saying, I hope you will
end this investigation
into General Flynn.
Even if that wasn't a directive,
that statement that you should
end it because he's a good
guy undercuts our basic notion
of equal justice under law.
We shouldn't be investigating
or stopping investigations
because the president thinks
someone is a good guy or
a U.S. attorney thinks
someone is a good guy.
That's number one.
My larger takeaway
is that the attorney
general seemed relatively
passionate in defending
his own lack of involvement
with the Russians
and quite convincing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He did.
WALTER DELLINGER: He
showed much less concern
about this extraordinary
event that the Russian,
a foreign military
hostile power, tried to
interfere in our elections.
He referred to it as
improper, but he didn't seem
to have any energy about
where that investigation
should go, didn't seem to
suggest that the president of
the United States is concerned
about what was really a foreign
attack by a hostile power on
the core of our democracy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we have got
a little excerpt of that coming
up, and I want to ask you that.
But just quickly, on this point,
Carrie Cordero, again, on --
is there a precedent for the
attorney general basically
saying, it's OK for me to remove
myself from a conversation
and let the president talk
to the head of the FBI
about something sensitive?
CARRIE CORDERO: Well, so,
in other circumstances,
if, for example, the
FBI director was at the
White House to give a
counterterrorism briefing,
on some really substantive
matter, then, sure.
But there would be other
aides in the room, too.
That type of briefing wouldn't
take place just with the
president and the FBI director.
But those are the types
of scenarios that would
be more routine types
of meetings between
a president and an FBI
director, if it was some
substantive type of briefing.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, and -- and
keep all that in mind, because
we want to turn to another
aspect of what came out
in today's testimony.
And that is that more
than one senator asked
the attorney general
about the firing of James
Comey.
The attorney general
testified that he didn't
talk to the FBI director
about his job performance
before the president
dismissed him.
He did detail for California
Democrat Dianne Feinstein the
issues that he had with Comey,
but he declined to answer
a later question from Maine
independent Senator Angus King.
JEFF SESSIONS: We
had problems there.
And it was my best judgment that
a fresh start at the FBI was
the appropriate thing to do.
And when asked, I said
that to president.
It's something I had adhered to.
Deputy Rosenstein's letter
dealt with a number of things.
When the -- Mr. Comey declined
the Clinton prosecution,
that was really a usurpation
of the authority of the
federal prosecutors in
the Department of Justice.
It was a stunning development.
The FBI -- the investigative
team, they don't decide
prosecution policies.
And that was a thunderous thing.
He also commented at some
length on the declination
of the Clinton prosecution,
which you shouldn't
normally -- you shouldn't do.
The policies have been historic.
If you decline, you decline
and you don't talk about it.
There were other things that
had happened that indicated
to me a lack of discipline.
And it caused controversy
on both sides of the aisle.
And I had come to the
conclusion that a fresh
start was appropriate.
(CROSSTALK)
SEN.
ANGUS KING (I), Maine: In
any of your discussions
about the firing of James
Comey, did the question
of the Russian
investigation ever come up?
JEFF SESSIONS: I cannot
answer that because
it was a communication
by the president, or,
if any such occurred, it
would be a communication
that he has not waived.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, a number
of people, George Terwilliger,
were struck by the fact that
the attorney general wouldn't
talk about these conversations
he had with the president.
GEORGE TERWILLIGER: Well, to
me, that makes perfect sense.
The privilege belongs to the
president, and it wouldn't be
up to a subordinate official
to take it upon himself to
waive it by answering the
question at that time and place.
Otherwise, the president
loses the ability to assert
or preserve that privilege.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you
and I were discussing this
earlier, Walter Dellinger.
We were trying to understand,
to what extent is there a
precedent for not answering some
of these questions?
We heard the attorney general
say -- at one point, he said,
I think there's even a piece
of paper at the Justice
Department that refers
to privileged or
confidential conversations
between the president
and the attorney general.
WALTER DELLINGER: You know,
he was very well-prepared,
but he didn't bring
any such piece of paper
with him.
And I would be surprised,
because I don't believe there
is any privilege of refusing
to answer questions from
a congressional committee,
unless the president is
going to invoke executive
privilege.
And he didn't want to say that.
Through a dozen iterations of
the question, he would simply
say, it was confidential,
without asserting any privilege.
Finally, he suggested -- and the
committee should follow up on
this -- here are the questions
we want answered.
Did you discuss the Russian
investigation in connection
with the firing of Comey?
And if the president then wants
to assert executive privilege,
he can do so in writing
communicated to the committee.
But, if not, then the
question ought to be answered
by the attorney general.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Carrie
Cordero, this really does get to
the heart of a lot of what we're
talking about today, and that
is, the president has not so
far exerted executive privilege.
He has not said to the
attorney general, you cannot
answer these questions.
But the attorney general said,
at least on two occasions today,
that he's trying to protect
the president's right to
later on exert executive
privilege, which is a
way of looking at this,
I think, some of
us haven't seen.
CARRIE CORDERO: Right.
So, this is the second week in
a row that senior administration
officials have had difficulty
answering this question.
DNI Coats, Director of National
Intelligence Coats, and
Director of NSA Rogers last week
had a similar problem,
where they didn't seem
to have been advised by
the White House Counsel's
Office that they should
exert executive privilege,
and yet they were
uncomfortable giving answers
to questions.
Attorney General
Sessions handled it a
little bit differently.
He did say that he was trying
to protect a potential exertion
of executive privilege,
but he also raised
other privileges.
He said maybe there are
some other privileges.
And so that reminded
me a little bit more of
the attorney-client-type
privilege that
sometimes the Department of
Justice asserts, but that's
when the Justice Department is
giving legal advice to the
president, and they don't then
want to provide information
to Congress.
So, he was still vague and
unclear about which privileges
he was potentially asserting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And that sounded
like a different question.
So, I'm coming back to
you, George Terwilliger,
to ask, on just how
solid is this ground that
the attorney general stands on
when he says, I'm protecting
the president's right to exert
executive...
GEORGE TERWILLIGER: I
think it's very solid.
And both Democrat and Republican
officials have asserted that
privilege over the years,
as recently as in the Obama
administration through
Attorney General Holder.
It's really quite
simple, I think, Judy.
If the president has a privilege
to have confidential discussions
with his advisers, which include
Cabinet officials, the
Cabinet officials shouldn't
be the ones to decide the
waive the confidentiality
of those communications.
And he doesn't know what
questions he is going
to be asked before he
gets up there, to ask
permission ahead of time,
can I talk about this,
can I talk about that?
So, I think it's just
a very practical issue.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, there is
another important part of this,
what came out today in today's
testimony that we
want to look at.
And that is on the attorney --
on the issue of the attorney
general's recusing himself
from the Russia investigation.
Mr. Sessions clashed at
one point with Oregon
Democratic Senator Ron
Wyden, who challenged
him on whether he
adhered to that recusal.
SEN.
RON WYDEN (D), Oregon: The
question is, Mr. Comey said that
there were matters with respect
to recusal that were problematic
and he couldn't talk about them.
What are they?
JEFF SESSIONS: Why
don't you tell me?
There are none, Senator Wyden.
There are none.
I can tell you that
for absolute certainty.
This is a secret innuendo
being leaked out there about
me, and I don't appreciate it.
And I have tried to give my
best and truthful answers to any
committee I've appeared before.
And it's really -- people are
suggesting through innuendo that
I have been not honest about
matters, and I've
tried to be honest.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: Why did you
sign a letter recommending
the fire -- firing of
Comey, when it violated
your recusal?
JEFF SESSIONS: It didn't
violate my recusal.
It didn't violate my recusal.
That would be answer to that.
And the letter that I signed
represented my views that had
been formulated for some time.
SEN.
RON WYDEN: Mr. Chairman, just
if I can finish, that answer,
in my view, doesn't pass the
smell test.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Walter
Dellinger, this is getting at
the -- what you heard, the tug
and pull about all afternoon,
and that is that letter that
the attorney general signed
and the deputy attorney
general signed criticizing
then FBI Director Comey
as the grounds for
his dismissal was all about
how he handled the Hillary
Clinton, or largely about how
he handled the Hillary
Clinton e-mail investigation.
Later on, the president said he
fired him mainly over Russia,
the Russia investigation.
And the attorney general
is basically saying, I
recused myself from the
Russia investigation,
but that's not a problem here.
WALTER DELLINGER: Well, the
attorney general makes the
point that he's responsible for
the entire department, and he
has to make personnel decisions.
Now, this one got awfully
close to his recusal issue.
And maybe he should
have stepped aside.
But, to me, the most interesting
question that wasn't fully
answered was, were you aware
- - when you sent the letter
to the president recommending
that Comey be fired, were you
aware that the president had
already decided to fire him?
And that question, he
-- the answer got evaded
in the back-and-forth.
And that will be an
interesting question for
someone to follow up with.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What is
your take on this exchange?
CARRIE CORDERO: Well, the
nut of it is, is, was former
Director Comey fired because of
the Russia investigation?
The president has said in an
interview that it was, that
Russia is what was on his mind.
And Attorney General Sessions
is clinging to this argument
that his -- his justification,
which is that it was
because of the handling of
the Hillary Clinton case.
And because he didn't answer
the one question, which was, in
the context of discussing with
the president the firing
of the FBI director,
did you also discuss the
Russia investigation,
that was the question that
really needed to be answered
to tie these pieces together.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, we don't
have the answer to the question?
GEORGE TERWILLIGER: I don't
think he's clinging to anything.
It's very possible -- I don't
know the answer, but it's very
possible that there could be
two very different reasons
on the part of the president
and the attorney general and
the deputy attorney general
for dismissing Mr. Comey.
Indeed, I know you may have
to be sort of part of the
Justice family or cognoscenti
to appreciate this, but what
Jim Comey did last July in terms
of usurping, as the attorney
general put it, the authority
of the Justice Department to
make a prosecution decision,
and then the utter trashing
of Hillary Clinton that he did
along with that, that is so far
outside the mainstream, that
the attorney general said today
that he and Mr. Rosenstein
had been talking about
that for some time and the
need to replace Mr. Comey.
The fact that that may have
been, or not, I don't know,
convenient to the president
for other reasons is something,
you know, that I'm sure the
Senate will want to explore,
but it doesn't impugn
the attorney general's
integrity at all.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But just to
quickly follow up, if the Russia
investigation was any part
of the reason for the
president's firing the
FBI director, and the
attorney general was
- - attached himself to that
decision, that wasn't a problem?
That didn't violate his recusal?
GEORGE TERWILLIGER: Well, it
might have if, in fact, you
know, he thought that was the
reason or he acted as
that -- the reason.
But I think Walter a few minutes
ago made a very good point.
The recusal is as to one case
out of thousands in the Justice
Department, albeit an important
one.
The attorney general
still has a responsibility
to run the department,
not the least of which
is to make sure he has the
right people in the top jobs.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Just very
quickly, Walter Dellinger,
what is the -- what
the -- do you think we
can get to the bottom of this
question of whether the recusal
was violated in some way?
WALTER DELLINGER: I think
we will, because I think
the special counsel,
follow-up hearings
are going to say, look, either
the president formally invoke
executive privilege or answer
the question about whether you
knew already that the president
made up his mind to fire
Comey, and to deal with the
fact that it is extremely
unusual for a president to have
half-a-dozen conversations
with an FBI director directly.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Walter Dellinger,
Carrie Cordero, George
Terwilliger, we thank you all.
Remarkable day,
another remarkable day.